---
layout: '../../layouts/Post.astro'

author: 'Charles Schooler'
dateAuthored: '2023-04-22'
description: 'The beginning of design iteration'
tags: ["meta", "development"]
title: 'for i = 0'
---
# Index These

Nothing too fancy in this one. Just adding the starting point of a content 
index layout using a CSS Grid with preview cards that could be used with 
Astro's content collections. You can go to it by accessing the `/blog` URL 
without a post slug at the end of it because linking to it from the root of
the site isn't in yet. I'm biasing my time towards making these things all
Vue components mostly out of familiarity. I haven't had much of a need for 
the features it provides _yet_.

## Convenience thy name is _'sweet'_

### I'm so meta, even this acronym

##### Shamelessly "borrowed" from **[xkcd](https://xkcd.com/917/)**

While it's not visible to the human eye (unless you look at the repo), I also
extracted out a group of common header tags to their own component. It currently
wraps around the favicon link (changing this is a very low priority at the moment),
the `<title>` tag and some `<meta>` tags. This is also a Vue component and if it needs
to expand beyond what it currently encapsulates I'll just use `v-if` directives
to prevent malformed tags from being rendered for optional meta content.

### _Style_ Distilled

Some tailwind styles have been applied to some semantic HTML components (currently
just the `<main>` tag) and I intend to continue doing that when it feels appropriate.

### The library is _open_

Some simple string functions have been added under a file by the same name in the newly
minted `src/lib` directory. Again, more functions and files will be added over time.

## i++

So there is an index for the `/blog` content collection now **BUT** there's no actual
link to it. The root index page does iterate over the blog content collection, and that's
the only way to access the individual blog posts currently without going directly to the
URLs backing them. So at the front of the queue is re-working the index of this site to
be an index of indices. I'll likely extract out the site header to standardize that as
well, along with some form of `About Me`. Because who doesn't like talking about themselves?

#### Fixes

The description of my first post has been corrected from `The usual first blog blog`
to `The usual first blog post`. While the first description does make sense at a semantic level,
it's not actually true, and I will not elaborate further. :)

This section will appear from time to time as I identify small issues that don't
take up enough oxygen to warrant working on them independently, especially for content.